because the humanitarian situation
remains dire cancer patients say they're
being denied exit for life-saving
treatment through the Rafa Crossing to
Egypt despite their names appearing on
authorized evacuation lists in parallel
fees charged by an Egyptian company
arranging evacuations from Gaza have
rocketed during the war becoming
unaffordable for most the BBC's larara
El gabali worked with producer haa albad
on this
report
I'm on my way to the border crossing
hopefully I will find my name there and
be able to travel God willing this is
s's third time at the Border in as many
months she was being treated for
leukemia when the conflict began leaving
her and almost 10,000 other cancer
patients in Gaza without
treatment despite her name being on
evacuation lists for the sick and the
injured she was turned away at the
border I read that my name was published
on the RAF coordination groups my name
was on the departure list twice I have
been to the crossing point twice for no
reason I was turned away Sahm's name
appeared on this list for evacuation to
Turkey on November 19th but border
agents on the Palestinian side turned
her away saying the Turkish Envoy wasn't
there to receive her but we found that
that wasn't the case MAA asoi was being
treated for breast cancer and was on the
same evacuation list ASM she was allowed
to leave to Turkey for treatment that
day and was even able to bring her two
daughters with
her after I got through the crossing
onto the Egyptian side I saw the Turkish
Consul waiting for us and I knew I was
going to Turkey we've spoken to two
other cancer patients who say they've
been turned away at the border despite
their names being on evacuation
lists officials in Turkey told the BBC
that they are not involved in approving
the exit of patients from Gaza and that
they are willing to treat as many
patients as they receive only 600 cancer
patients from Gaza have managed to leave
since October
7th Israel vets who is allowed to leave
Gaza the Israeli Ministry of Defense
told us they have no restrictions on the
number of patients allowed to leave for
medical treatment Palestinian border
authorities declined to comment on
Sahm's case but it seems there are other
ways to leave Gaza a lucrative Monopoly
has emerged from the war with one
Egyptian travel agency Hela charging
Palestinians $5,000 per person to exit
Gaza within 1 to 2 weeks this is more
than four times the average annual
salary in Gaza this man says he had to
pay a Hela employee an extra $300 to get
his family on the evacuation list we've
hidden his
identity they weren't letting anyone in
if you wanted to go in you had to pay to
be lay so then you could pay the
$5,000 the fee was $5,000 for an adult
and $25,000 for a child for Palestinian
passport holders he is one of 10 people
who told us they made extra payments of
up to $4,000 to Hela employees to get
their families evacuated but it seems
the best connected in Gaza can leave
without paying at all we found the names
of Palestinian citizens on an evacuation
list meant for Egyptians one of them
told us they were helped to get on the
list by someone with political
connections neither Hela nor the
Egyptian foreign Ministry responded to
our
questions in Gaza time is running out
for Zim whose cancer is
spreading we are uing now my medicine is
finished I'm so tired I can hardly see
in front of me no blood tests or
anything my chapy ran out a long time
ago without the money or connections
many patients like sahm have been left
behind